SwiftUI Best Practices Update (#124)
Lickability/swift-best-practices: SwiftUIBestPractices.md

# SwiftUI Best Practices
## File Order

### `body` placed after `init`

``` swift

> /// Displays the settings related to voice activation.

Reviewer: Add some flavor text here on why we do the init before the body. eg. predictable spot, init the the start, the body is the main chunk

> # SwiftUI Best Practices

Reviewer 2: Since we already have a SwiftUI section in the table of contents/Readme, a link to this document should be added there as well. We may want to name this something like "Miscellaneous SwiftUI Best Practices" since we’re already splitting things up over a couple documents, and over time, if these topics within grow, we can move them out to their own documents within the SwiftUI section.

Reviewer 2: We ultimately decided against this, and changed the TOC label beneath the SwiftUI section to be more general, but kept the actual document name and title the same in case it’s read in isolation.

## File Order - Dictates how individual View components are placed within a file.

### `body` placed after `init`
We recommend placing the body of the view after the initializer, since this helps to establish a predictable location for the body with in the file. 

``` swift
/// Displays the settings related to voice activation.
struct SettingsView: View {
    // …
    
    init(sliderValue: Binding<Double>, wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Binding<Bool>, settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel) {
        self._sliderValue = sliderValue
        self._wasSessionPreviouslyRunning = wasSessionPreviouslyRunning
        self.settingsViewModel = settingsViewModel
    }
    
    // MARK: - View
    
    var body: some View {
        List {...}
            .listStyle(.insetGrouped)
    }
}
```

>  `body` placed after properties

Reviewer 2: Was this supposed to have the same heading level of the section above?
```suggestion
### `body` placed after properties
```

When no initializer is present the body can be placed immediately after the properties listed.

``` swift
/// Displays the settings related to voice activation.
struct SettingsView: View {
    // …
    @AppStorage(AppStorageKeys.keyTwo) private var propertyTwo = 0.75
    @AppStorage(AppStorageKeys.keyThree) private var propertyThree = 0.5
    @StateObject private var object = DeviceObserver()
    
    private let numberFormatter = NumberFormatter.fractionFormatter
    private let wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Bool
    
    // MARK: - View
    
    var body: some View {
        List {...}
            .listStyle(.insetGrouped)
    }
}
```

### Property Wrappers grouped together

> `@StateObject`, `@State`, and `@AppStorage` properties are marked as private, because they do not need to be mutated outside of their containing file. Property wrappers of the same type should be grouped together. 
> In the example below property wrappers are listed first followed by properties without property wrappers. 

Reviewer 2: Minor comma usage suggestions
```suggestion
`@StateObject`, `@State`, and `@AppStorage` properties are marked as private because they do not need to be mutated outside of their containing file. Property wrappers of the same type should be grouped together. 
In the example below, property wrappers are listed first followed by properties without property wrappers. 
```

```swift 
struct SettingsView: View {
    @Binding private(set) var isDisplayingCertificateView: Bool
    @ObservableObject private(set) var settingsViewModel: SettingViewModel
    @AppStorage(AppStorageKeys.keyOne) private var propertyOne = 0.5
    @AppStorage(AppStorageKeys.keyTwo) private var propertyTwo = 0.75
    @AppStorage(AppStorageKeys.keyThree) private var propertyThree = 0.5
    @StateObject private var object = DeviceObserver()
    
    private let numberFormatter = NumberFormatter.fractionFormatter
    private let wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Bool
}
```

# Initializing SwiftUI Views

> ### A synthesized initializer

Reviewer 2: A synthesized initializer means that the initializer was automatically generated, where in this case it appears to be manually written. For example, a not-manually-written member-wise initializer could be considered synthesized. See [for example](https://www.swiftbysundell.com/tips/when-can-memberwise-initializers-be-used/):
> In Swift, types defined as structs automatically get a default initializer synthesized by the compiler — a so-called “memberwise initializer”, as the compiler will generate it based on the given struct’s members (that is, its stored properties).

I think we need to remove "synthesized" from this section, and maybe call it "manually written", or something similar, instead.

> In the example below we use a synthesized initializer to create our view. We pass our binding with in our initializer to clean up our property call sites.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example below we use a synthesized initializer to create our view. We pass our binding to our initializer to clean up our property call sites.
```

```swift 
struct SettingsView: View {
    @Binding private var sliderValue: Double
    @Binding private var wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Bool
    
    private let settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel
    private let numberFormatter = NumberFormatter.fractionFormatter
    
    init(sliderValue: Binding<Double>, wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Binding<Bool>, settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel) {
        self._sliderValue = sliderValue
        self._wasSessionPreviouslyRunning = wasSessionPreviouslyRunning
        self.settingsViewModel = settingsViewModel
    }
}
```

### A member-wise initializer

> If a `@Binding`  property is not being modifier with in the view which references it, consider marking it a `private(set)` . This ensures that our property won’t be mutated outside of the context we want it to be.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a `@Binding`  property is not being modified within the view that references it, consider marking it a `private(set)` . This ensures that our property won’t be mutated outside of the context we want it to be.
```

#### Example One
```swift 
struct SettingsView: View {
    
    @Binding private(set) var sliderValue: Double
    @Binding private(set) var wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Bool
    
    private let settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel
    private let numberFormatter = NumberFormatter.fractionFormatter
}
```

> In this example we the values of the `@Binding` value is able to be mutated outside of this view, hence we don’t mark it `private(set)`.

Reviewer 2: I’m not sure I understand this section. We aren’t modifying the binding outside of the view. Do we typically run into scenarios where bindings are exposed and read/written to elsewhere? More often, I pass bindings from one view to another, for example, but that doesn’t imply anything about access control, and each view that holds a reference could be fully `private`. I would think with SwiftUI we could reasonably expect them to always be `private`, `private(set)`, or `fileprivate(set)` depending on whether you‘re declaring multiple views in the same file, but I still am trying to understand use cases. If you could provide examples of how other types use these exposed bindings (in the comments) that might help here and we can refine this section.

# SwiftUI Best Practices

> # File Order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## File Order
```

> ## `Body` placed after init

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `body` placed after `init`
```

Reviewer: I'd also add a sentence after this that explains what the example is like is done for property wrappers being grouped together

					self._wasSessionPreviouslyRunning = wasSessionPreviouslyRunning
					self.settingsViewModel = settingsViewModel
		}
    
    // MARK: - View

    var body: some View {
        List {...}
        .listStyle(InsetGroupedListStyle())
        .navigationTitle("Voice Activation")
        .navigationBarTitleDisplayMode(.inline)
        .onAppear {
            startSessionIfNeeded()
        }
        .onDisappear {
            stopSessionIfNeeded()
        }
        .toolbar {
            ToolbarItem(placement: .primaryAction) {
                PickerView()
            }
        }
    }

    // MARK: - SettingsView

    private func startAudioSessionIfNeeded() {
        guard !wasSessionPreviouslyRunning else {
            return
        }
        
        audioSession.start()
    }
    
    private func stopAudioSessionIfNeeded() {
        guard !wasSessionPreviouslyRunning else {
            return
        }
        
        audioSession.stop()
    }
}

struct VoiceActivationSettingsView_Previews: PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        NavigationView {
            SettingsView(audioSession: AVAudioSession())
        }
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: This snippet is quite long for a fairly small guideline. Can we shorten it, like:
```swift
/// Displays the settings related to voice activation.
struct SettingsView: View {

    // …
     
    init(sliderValue: Binding<Double>, wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Binding<Bool>, settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel) {
        self._sliderValue = sliderValue
        self._wasSessionPreviouslyRunning = wasSessionPreviouslyRunning
        self.settingsViewModel = settingsViewModel
    }
     
     // MARK: - View

    var body: some View {
        List {...}
        .listStyle(InsetGroupedListStyle())
    }

    // …
}
```

> # Property Wrappers grouped together

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Property Wrappers grouped together
```

> `@StateObject` , `@State` and `@AppStorage` properties are marked as private, because they do not need to be mutated outside of their containing file. Property wrappers of the same type should be grouped together. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@StateObject`, `@State`, and `@AppStorage` properties are marked as private, because they do not need to be mutated outside of their containing file. Property wrappers of the same type should be grouped together. 
```

In the example below property wrappers are listed first followed by properties without property wrappers. 

```swift 
struct SettingsView: View {

    @Binding private(set) var isDisplayingCertificateView: Bool
    @ObservableObject private(set) var settingsViewModel: SettingViewModel
    @AppStorage(AppStorageKeys.keyOne) private var propertyOne = 0.5
    @AppStorage(AppStorageKeys.keyTwo) private var propertyTwo = 0.75
    @AppStorage(AppStorageKeys.keyThree) private var propertyThree = 0.5
    @StateObject private var object = DeviceObserver()
    
    private let numberFormatter = NumberFormatter.fractionFormatter
    private let wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Bool
 }
```

# Initializing SwiftUI Views

## Creating Initializers

> ### A synthesized initializer

Reviewer 2: It's unclear what these initializer sections are trying to convey with regard to guidelines. What guideline is being proposed for each of these, and why? In the example above, the introductory text is clear, that it's about ordering and what comes before the next thing, and the example helps to illustrate that. Similar text on each of these might help to clarify the points / guidelines.

```swift 
struct SettingsView: View {

        @Binding private var sliderValue: Double
        @Binding private var wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Bool

		private let settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel

> 		private let numberFormatter = NumberFormatter.fractionFormatter

Reviewer 2: This applies to possibly every snippet, but the indentation is off. Could you take all of the snippets, put them in a swift file or playground, select all, and `⌘+I` to reformat, and then paste back in, please?

		}
 }

```

### A member-wise initializer
```swift 
struct SettingsView: View {

        @Binding private(set) var sliderValue: Double
		@Binding private(set) var wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Bool

		private let settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel
		private let numberFormatter = NumberFormatter.fractionFormatter
}
```

### Regular initializer- without private set.

In this example we the values of the `@Binding` value is able to be mutated outside of this view.

```swift 
struct SettingsView: View {

        @Binding var sliderValue: Double
		@Binding var wasSessionPreviouslyRunning: Bool

		private let settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel
		private let numberFormatter = NumberFormatter.fractionFormatter
 }

SettingsView(sliderValue: sliderValue, wasSessionPreviouslyRunning:wasSessionPreviouslyRunning, settingsViewModel: SettingsViewModel())
```

## Comments related to modifiers

### Single line Modifiers
Comments explaining the use of modifiers should be placed to the right of the modifiers. 

```swift 
HStack {
    // …
}
.someModifier1()
.someModifier2() // we use this because blah blah blah
.someModifier3()
```

## Modifiers containing closures

> When adding comments to modifiers containing closures, the comment should be placed above the line of code you want to give clarity to.

Reviewer 2: I think we should be more specific.
```suggestion
When adding comments to modifiers containing closures, the comment should be placed at the beginning of the closure’s body.
```
